RDP Classifier 2.0 (July 2008) README file

INTRODUCTION

The RDP Classifier is a naive Bayesian classifier which was developed to provide rapid taxonomic placement based on rRNA sequence data. The RDP Classifier can rapidly and accurately classify bacterial 16s rRNA sequences into the new higher-order taxonomy proposed by Bergey's Trust. It provides taxonomic assignments from domain to genus, with confidence estimates for each assignment. The RDP Classifier is not limited to using the bacterial taxonomy proposed by the Bergey's editors. It worked equally well when trained on the NCBI taxonomy. The RDP Classifier likely can be adapted to additional phylogenetically coherent bacterial taxonomies.   

The version 2.0 has only minor changes over the version 1.0. The minimum sequence length is reduced to 50 bases due to short reads produced by pyrosequencing technique. The Hierarchy is now based on the new phylogenetically consistent higher-order bacterial taxonomy (TOBA Release 7.7) proposed by Garrity et. al, with additional major rearrangements that have been proposed for the Firmicutes and Cyanobacteria. It also includes published informal classifications for well-defined lineage with few cultivated members, such as Acidobacteria, Verrucomicrobia and OP11. Additional information for the classification of chloroplasts, Korarchaeota, and Nanoarchaeum were taken from the NCBI taxonomy. The online version of the Classifier and more help are available on RDP web site:
http://rdp.cme.msu.edu/


FILES

                   
rdp_classifier-2.0.jar
  The compiled RDP Classifier library with training data from the Taxonomic Outline of Bacteria and Archaea. TOBA Release 7.7, with additional modifications (see above).
  There are two command line demo classes:
  A command line class to create training information from the raw data.
	java -Xmx600m -cp rdp_classifier-2.0.jar edu/msu/cme/rdp/classifier/train/ClassifierTraineeMaker

  A command line class to do the classification. It can use either the sample training data or user specified data.
	java -Xmx600m -jar rdp_classifier-2.0.jar

sampledata/ 
  A README file about how to train the classifier and classify query sequences.
  Sample raw training data files (testTaxonForQuerySeq.txt and testQuerySeq.fasta)
  and sample property file (rRNAClassifier.properties) 

docs/index.html
  The javadoc.

src/
  The source code.

lib/
  Third party libraries.
